## Company Certificate Deletion

In addition to the ability to upload and manage your company certificates, a certificate deletion function is enabled - allowing you to easily remove any outdated or no longer relevant certificates from your company account.

To delete a certificate, simply locate the certificate you wish to remove in the "Certificates" section of your account settings. Click on the card element with the three dots to open the sub-menu, and then click on the "Delete" option. A confirmation prompt will appear to ensure you want to proceed with the deletion.

Please note that once a certificate is deleted, it cannot be recovered. Therefore, it is important to double-check and ensure that you are deleting the correct certificate.

The deletion function provides you with the flexibility to keep your certificate repository up-to-date and clutter-free; as well as giving you complete sovereign responsibility to decide which certificate you wanna share. By removing unnecessary certificates, you can maintain a streamlined and organized collection of only the most relevant and current documents.

<br>
<br>

#### Linked Functions

* [Upload Certificates](/docs/user/08.%20Company%20Certificates/01.%20Certificate%20Upload)
* [Certificate Publishing](/docs/user/08.%20Company%20Certificates/03.%20Certificate%20Publishing)

<br>

## NOTICE

This work is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2024 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
- Source URL: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/portal-assets