## Onboarding Service Provider (OSP)

The onboarding service provider is a standalone dataspace participant which has as goal to scale the dataspace fast and to provide either a unique onboarding flow for the customer or interacts as OSP to provide a quick and easy connection for their existing network customers to the Catena-X dataspace.
In the current implementation stage the OSP is responsible for the

<br>

- [Role Description](#role-description)
  - [MUST Services](#must-services)
  - [Outlook Future Releases](#outlook-future-releases)
- [Become an OSP](#become-an-osp)
  - [Certification](#certification)
  - [Network Role](#network-role)
- [Register your customer IdP](#register-your-customer-idp)
- [Create External Registrations](#create-external-registrations)
- [Receive registration status](#receive-registration-status)
- [Managed registered companies](#managed-registered-companies)

<br>

### Role Description

An OSP is responsible for deploying, operating, and maintaining onboarding services according to Catena-X standards. The onboarding services enable and support data space participants to register and onboard and offboard to Catena-X data space.
This includes organizational registration and technical integration, after which an organization can fully participate in the data space. An OSP can enable new prospects and/or their existing customer base in terms of network-of-networks.
To ensure maximum trust in the data space during the onboarding process, the OSP must establish a connection with the Gaia-X Digital Clearing House (GXDCH).
For smooth operations, the OSP must provide comprehensive technical documentation, along with first, second, and third level support to facilitate integration with its services.

#### MUST Services

- An OSP must implement an IAM synchronization with CSP-As, the CSP-B, and OSPs to provide its customers with access to the data space.
- An OSP must integrate and use CSP-B services to access their identity (e. g., identity wallet) and enable data exchange.

#### Outlook Future Releases

- An OSP must integrate and use the GAIA-X Digital Clearing House to validate e. g., the Legal Person Self-Description.
- An OSP CAN offer a wallet solution for their customers; if not offered, the wallet of the connected CSP-B needs to get used

<br>

&uarr; [back to top](#top)

<br>
<br>

### Become an OSP

#### Certification

To become an OSP; the provider needs to apply for the OSP certification.
The OSP certification details are stored on the catena-x homepage. Please follow the details found their.

#### Network Role

After receiving the OSP certification; the company needs to register with each CSB-x to which they wanna connect.
2 Options are possible:

a) register as OSP as part of the registration process: [Company Role & Consent](/docs/user/01.%20Onboarding/02.%20Registration/04.%20Company%20Role%20%26%20Consent.md)  
b) receive the OSP role after the initial registration: [Change Company Role](/docs/user/02.%20Technical%20Integration/05.%20Company%20Role/Change%20Company%20Role.md)

<br>

&uarr; [back to top](#top)

<br>
<br>

### Register your (OSP) customer IdP

Before running any registrations, the IdP used for the customer accounts need to get registered.
This can be done by creating an IdP connection: [Configure Company IdP](/docs/user/02.%20Technical%20Integration/02.%20Identity%20Provider%20Management/02.%20Configure%20Company%20IdP.md)

<br>

&uarr; [back to top](#top)

<br>
<br>

### Create External Registrations

The onboarding service provider runs their own registration process/form. The process must be compliant with the catena-x standards and can be further defined by the OSP itself.
The registration of the customer on the OSP side is expected to trigger a registration request on the CSP-B side.
Therefor the OSP must integrate their registration component with the CSP-B/A interface based on the catena-x standards shared under the following details: [External Registration API](/docs/developer/01.%20Registration/03.%20Registration%20External/01.%20OSP%20Registration%20API.md)

<br>

&uarr; [back to top](#top)

<br>
<br>

### Receive registration status

To provide the OSP an status update for the customer registration and support possible customer interactions in case of problems or missing progress; the status callback can be used.
The connect to the registration status callback; the OSP needs to implement an interface and register the interface endpoint on the CSP side.

Details can be found here: [OSP Registration Callback](/docs/developer/01.%20Registration/03.%20Registration%20External/02.%20OSP%20Registration%20Callback.md)

<br>

&uarr; [back to top](#top)

<br>
<br>

### Managed registered companies

_under implementation_
<br>

&uarr; [back to top](#top)

<br>
<br>

## NOTICE

This work is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2024 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
- Source URL: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/portal-assets
