### Step 4 - Technical Integration

The 'Technical Integration' is used to enable the service provider to define the technical user profile needed to run the service. Depending on the service type, the technical user profile is relevant or will be skipped.
If the service provider is planning to publish a dataspace service, such as a managed EDC, the technical user profile is needed to retrieve as part of the service subscription activation for a specific customer the respective technical user. The technical user will be used to connect to the Catena-X dataspace and enable the provider to run the service authorization etc.

For the technical integration the respetive available technical user profiles will be displayed.
The service provider can select one or multiple user permissions which are supposed to get assigned to the respective technical user as soon as created.

<br>

### #1 GET Available Technical User Permissions

Retrieve all available, possible selectable technical user permission sets with description and display the same inside the app release process

```diff
! GET: api/administration/serviceaccount/user/roles
```

<br>

Response Body

    [
    {
        "roleId": "3fa85f64-5717-4562-b3fc-2c963f66afa6",
        "roleName": "string",
        "roleDescription": "string"
    }
    ]

<br>
<br>

### #2 Fetch previously service stored Tech User Profile

Fetch the already stored (if available) technical user profile for the respective service

```diff
! GET: /api/services/servicerelease/{serviceId}/technical-user-profiles
```

<br>

Response Body

    [
    {
        "technicalUserProfileId": "3fa85f64-5717-4562-b3fc-2c963f66afa6",
        "userRoles": [
            {
                roleId: "607818be-4978-41f4-bf63-fa8d2de51155",
                roleName: "String"}
        ]
    }
    ]

<br>
<br>

### #3 Store Tech User Profile

POST the technical user profile set. The endpoint can update existing technical user profiles (if a uuid of the existing technical user profile is added in the request body) or create a complete new technical user profile for the service (if the "technicalUserProfileId" is kept empty).

```diff
! PUT: /api/services/servicerelease/{serviceId}/technical-user-profiles
```

<br>

Request Body

    [
    {
        "technicalUserProfileId": "3fa85f64-5717-4562-b3fc-2c963f66afa6",
        "userRoleIds": [
        "3fa85f64-5717-4562-b3fc-2c963f66afa6"
        ]
    }
    ]

<br>
<br>

## NOTICE

This work is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2023 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
- Source URL: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/portal-assets
