# Access Token Retrieval

While a normal user usually has access to access tokens by being signed in, when testing endpoints in an automated
manner as part of a CI/CD pipeline it is needed to get access token for tests. For existing users, the token can be
retrieved via the authentication flow using the company name, username and password. For new users invited during the
registration process, a temporary email address needed to be created first in order to receive an email with a password.

The implementation of

- [Authentication Flow](#authentication-flow)
- [Use of disposable email addresses](#use-of-disposable-email-addresses)
  - [DeveloperMail API](#developermail-api)
  - [TempMail API](#tempmail-api)

will be explained now and can be found here:

```
..\tests\endtoend\AuthFlow
```

## Authentication Flow

In order to fetch a user token, the company name, username and password are required. A series of HTTP requests against
the CentralIdp and SharedIdp have to be made in order to exchange the credentials for an access token via auth code
grant.
Additionally, if a new user was created following an E2E test, the password has to be updated. Thus, the authentication
flow consists of a series of 6 and 8 requests for existing users and new users, respectively:

### Authenticate existing and new users: Start

- Start on the CentralIdp Page

```
GET: https://centralidp.{env}.example.org/auth/realms/CX-Central/protocol/openid-connect/auth
```

This request returns an HTML body from which the list of existing companies can be extracted. The response Header "
Set-Cookie" contains 3 cookies which are required for following requests.

- Forward to Login SharedIdp Url

```
GET: https://centralidp.{env}.example.org/auth/realms/CX-Central/broker/{companyNameInUrl}/login?client_id=Cl2-CX-Portal&tab_id={tabId}&session_code={sessionCode}
```

This request returns the header location to a SharedIdp Url. The query parameters are extracted from the chosen company.
The request headers must include the cookies fetched from the previous request.

- Get Login form

```
GET: {sharedIdpUrl from previous request}
```

This request returns an HTML body with the login form from which a SharedIdp Url can be extracted.

- Authenticate User against SharedIdp or forward to update password

```
POST: {sharedIdpUrl from previous request}
```

This request requires a form body which must include the company name, username and password of the user to be
authenticated. It returns the header location to an Url.
This Url can either be a CentralIdp Url for fetching the auth code for login of an existing user or another SharedIdp
Url for updating the password of a new user.

### Authenticate new users only: Update Password

- Forward to Update-Password form SharedIdp Url

```
GET: {sharedIdpUrl from previous request}
```

This request returns an HTML body with the update-password form from which a SharedIdp Url can be extracted. The request
headers must include the cookies fetched from the first request.

- Update user password

```
POST: {sharedIdpUrl from previous request}
```

This request requires a form body which must include the username, old password, new password and the confirmed new
password of the user to be authenticated. It returns the header location to a CentralIdp Url for fetching the auth Url.
From here on, the authentication flow for new users continues to follow the flow for existing users:

### Authenticate existing and new users: End

- Authenticate User against CentralIdp

```
GET: {centralIdpUrl from previous request}
```

This request returns the header location to a CentralIdp Url. The Url includes the auth code. The request headers must
include the cookies fetched from the first request.

- Exchange Auth code for access token

```
POST: https://centralidp.{env}.example.org/auth/realms/CX-Central/protocol/openid-connect/token
```

This request requires a form body which must include the code, grant type, client id and redirect uri. It returns a JSON
object including the user access token.

## Use of disposable email addresses

The registration process consists of an invitation step in which an administrator sends to a user an invitation to join
the Catena-X Portal. To make it possible temporary email services are used.
Per default [DeveloperMail](https://developermail.com/api/v1/) is used as it is a free API with suitable limit on
requests (only more than 25 requests in one second will result a HTTP 429 Too Many Requests response). In case if this
API is not available [TempMail API](https://apilayer.com/marketplace/temp_mail-api) will be used as it is restricted to
500 requests in month and requires registration to get TempMailApiKey to access functionality.

### DeveloperMail API

The base url for requests to DeveloperMail API is:

```
https://developermail.com/api/v1
```

In order to get a username and password for a new user the following steps are executed:

- Generate a random email address

```
PUT: /mailbox
```

This endpoint returns a response that contains a username and an access token of the type "X-MailboxToken" for all other
requests.

- Send invitation to user @ developermail.com (s. [RegistrationScenarios](05.%20RegistrationScenarios.md))

Important: a delay after sending invitation and before checking mailbox is implemented in order to give time for the
emails to reach the mailbox.

- Get existing message ids

```
GET: /mailbox/{username}
```

- Check mailbox with the body consists of the list with the received ids

```
POST: /mailbox/{username}/messages
```

- Find email with password and fetch it

The password is searched in the first paragraph that follows after the paragraph with the text 'Below you
can find your password' in the email whose topic contains "Password required".

- Delete mailbox

```
DELETE: /mailbox/{username}
```

For security reasons the mailbox is deleted after fetching the password.

### TempMail API

Registration is required to use TempMailApi, which can be done [here](https://apilayer.com/marketplace/temp_mail-api)
with any email address you use. TempMailApiKey should be stored secure as GitHub Secret or locally via Secret Manager
and should not be committed to version control.

The base url for requests to TempMail API is:

```
https://api.apilayer.com/temp_mail
```

- Get available domains

```
GET: /domains
```

In contrast to the first option here a random address is not generated, but a list of available domains is requested.
Any username can be chosen, for now "apitestuser" is hardcoded.

- Send invitation to "apitestuser" @ one of available domains (
  s. [RegistrationScenarios](05.%20RegistrationScenarios.md))
- Get password message and fetch password

```
GET: /mail/id/{hashedEmailAddress}
```

where email address is hashed with MD5.

Similar to the approach described above the password is searched in the first paragraph of the table that follows after
the paragraph with the text 'Below you can find your password' in the email whose topic contains "Password required".

- Delete password message

```
DELETE: /delete/id/{mailId}
```

Finally the password message is deleted after fetching the password for security reasons.

In both cases after getting the username and password, an authentication flow can be processed to get an access token
for the user.

## NOTICE

This work is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2023 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
- Source URL: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/portal-assets
