# Service Account CUD Scenarios

These scenarios suppose to check if new service accounts can be correctly created, updated and deleted. As service accounts always need to get a permission assigned, the permission for these tests is defined in test data file for ServiceAccountCUDScenarios and is "BPDM Pool" for now. The UUID of this permission is fetched via:

```
GET: api/administration/serviceaccount/user/roles
```

These scenarios run sequentially. After run of all scenarios the newly created service accounts are deleted.

## Create a new service account

This scenario checks if a new service account can be created correctly. 

To do this, first a list of existing accounts is requested via:

```
GET: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts
```
Next a new service account is created:
```
POST: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts
```
with body (same structure for other scenarios):

```

{
    "name": "string",
    "description": "string",
    "authenticationType": "SECRET",
    "roleIds": [
        "UUID_OF_PERMISSION"
    ]
}
```
To ensure that the new service account is created correctly, current list of existing accounts is requested and it is validated if new service account is not a part of the first list, but the part of the second one.

```
GET: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts
```

Finally [a token for the created technical user]((../../03.%20User%20Management/03.%20Technical%20User/05.%FAQ.md)) is fetched and it is validated if the token includes an attribute "bpn".


## Create a new service account and update the same

This scenario checks if a new service account can be created correctly and if the name and the description of this account can be updated.

To do this, a new service account is created:

```
POST: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts
```
Then details of this account are updated by changing name and description:

```
PUT: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts/{serviceAccountId}
```
Afterwards it is checked if the change of the service account details got successfully saved:
```
GET: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts
```

## Create a new service account and update the credentials

This scenario checks if a new service account can be created correctly and if credentials for this account can be reset.

To do this, a new service account is created:

```   
POST: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts
```   
Then credentials of the created service account are reset:
```   
POST: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts/{serviceAccountId}/resetCredentials
```   
Afterwards it is checked if the resetup of credentials was successful: 
```   
GET: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts
```

Finally [a token for the created technical user]((../../03.%20User%20Management/03.%20Technical%20User/05.%FAQ.md)) with the new credentials is fetched and it is checked that old credentials are not valid anymore.



## Create and delete a new service account

This scenario checks if a new service account can be created and afterwards deleted correctly.

First a new service account is created:

```  
POST: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts
```  
Afterward it will be checked if the new service account is available:
```  
GET: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts
```  
Then the created service account is deleted:
```  
DELETE: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts/{serviceAccountId}
```  
Afterwards it is checked that the deleted service account is not available anymore:
```  
GET: api/administration/serviceaccount/owncompany/serviceaccounts - check the endpoint, the deleted service account should not be available anymore
```