# Test data file setup

Test data file setup explains how test data is set up and covers following topics:

* [General instructions for working with the test data files](#general-instructions-for-working-with-the-test-data-files)
* [Test data files for registration scenarios](#test-data-files-for-registration-scenarios)
    - [Scenario: Registration without Bpn](#scenario-registration-without-bpn)
    - [Scenario: Update company detail data](#scenario-update-company-detail-data)
* [Test data file for service account CUD scenarios](#test-data-file-for-service-account-cud-scenarios)
* [Test data file for create app scenario](#test-data-file-for-create-app-scenario)
* [Test documents](#test-documents)
* [Hardcoded values in the test scenarios](#hardcoded-values-in-the-test-scenarios)

All test data files for Test Automation are now placed in the directory "endtoend/TestData" which is structured as
follows:

* CreateAppScenario
    - TestDataCreateApp.json
    - TestDataCreateAppDocument.pdf (optional)
    - TestDataCreateAppImage.png  (optional)
* RegistrationScenarios
    - TestDataHappyPathRegistrationWithoutBpn.json
    - TestDataHappyPAthUpdateCompanyDetailData.json
    - TestDataRegistrationDocument.pdf  (optional)
* ServiceAccountsCUDScenarios
    - TestDataServiceAccountCUDScenarios.json

## General instructions for working with the test data files

For successful run the json files should be named as written above, other documents are needed for upload and their
names can be defined in the respective json files.

The json files represent a list of json objects. If a new object is added into the list in the test file, test will run
several times according to number of objects in the file.

When editing test data files, the values can be changed, but the file structure and field names must remain unchanged
for proper data parsing.

Now the structure of the objects for each scenario will be explained.

## Test data files for registration scenarios

### Scenario: Registration without Bpn

For registration without bpn company detail data, company roles, document type id and document name can be defined via
test data file. The structure of the corresponding object looks as follows:

```
{
    "companyDetailData": {
        "companyId": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001",
        "name": "Test-Catena-X",
        "city": "Munich",
        "streetName": "Main street",
        "countryAlpha2Code": "DE",
        "bpn": null,
        "shortName": "Test-Catena-X",
        "region": "Bayern",
        "streetAdditional": "Test",
        "streetNumber": "1",
        "zipCode": "12345",
        "countryDe": "Deutschland",
        "uniqueIds": [
            {
                "type": "COMMERCIAL_REG_NUMBER",
                "value": "HRB 12345"
            }
        ]
    },
    "companyRoles": [
        "ACTIVE_PARTICIPANT", "APP_PROVIDER"
        ],
    "documentTypeId": "COMMERCIAL_REGISTER_EXTRACT",
    "documentName": "TestDataRegistrationDocument.pdf"
}
```

Some notes: CompanyId from test data file is ignored as it is defined during invitation execution. For uniqueness of
company names, during a test run a unique code consisting of the date and time of the test start is added to the values
specified in the test file. So there is no need to care about uniqueness of company names and "Test-Catena-X" can be
used in all data sets for this scenario.

### Scenario: Update company detail data

For update company detail data scenario company detail data and update copmpany detail data can be defined via test data
file. The structure of the corresponding object looks as follows:

```
{
    "companyDetailData": {
      "companyId": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
      "name": "Test-Catena-X",
      "city": "Munich",
      "streetName": "Main street",
      "countryAlpha2Code": "DE",
      "bpn": null,
      "shortName": "Test-Catena-X",
      "region": "Bayern",
      "streetAdditional": "Test",
      "streetNumber": "1",
      "zipCode": "12345",
      "countryDe": "Deutschland",
      "uniqueIds": [
        {
            "type": "COMMERCIAL_REG_NUMBER",
            "value": "HRB 12345"
        }
      ]
    },
    "updateCompanyDetailData": {
      "companyId": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
      "name": "Test-Catena-X-Update",
      "city": "Munich",
      "streetName": "Main street update",
      "countryAlpha2Code": "DE",
      "bpn": null,
      "shortName": "Test-Catena-X",
      "region": "Bayern",
      "streetAdditional": "Test",
      "streetNumber": "12",
      "zipCode": "12345",
      "countryDe": "Deutschland",
      "uniqueIds": [
        {
            "type": "VAT_ID",
            "value": "DE123456789"
        }
      ]
    }
}
```

Some notes: CompanyId from test data file is ignored as it is defined during invitation execution and stay the same for
created and updated company detail data. The goal of the test is to check if the address and an another type of unique
id can be updated correctly. So it makes sense to fill out the fields accordingly.

## Test data file for service account CUD scenarios

Test data file for service account CUD scenarios has now only one permission/role "BPDM Pool". If additional permissions
are added to the list, the appropriate technical user will get additional permissions assigned. As explained earlier,
additional objects with other roles can be added to the file in order to run the same scenario with different data sets.

```
{
  "permissions": ["BPDM Pool"]
}
```

## Test data file for create app scenario

For create app scenario request model, app user roles, document name and image name can be defined via test data file
with the following structure:

```
{
    "requestModel": {
      "title": "TestAutomation - TestApp",
      "provider": "Max Mustermann",
      "salesManagerId": null,
      "useCaseIds": null,
      "descriptions": [
        {
        "languageCode": "en",
        "longDescription": "It is a long description for TestApp via TestAutomation",
        "shortDescription": "It is a short description for TestApp via TestAutomation"
      }
      ],
      "supportedLanguageCodes": null,
      "price": "99999999",
      "privacyPolicies": null,
      "providerUri": "https://catena-x.net",
      "contactEmail": "maxmustermann@google.com",
      "contactNumber": "+4912345678910"
    },
    "appUserRoles": [
      {
        "role": "TestAutomation Role",
        "descriptions": [
          {
            "languageCode": "en",
            "description": "This is a test role for test app via TestAutomation"
          }
        ]
      }
    ],
    "documentName": "TestDataCreateAppDocument.pdf",
    "imageName": "TestDataCreateAppImage.png"
  }
```

In request model sales manager id should stay null for this scenario. Use case ids, supported language codes and privacy
policies are fetched from static data during the test and therefore should not be defined in the file. Now the first
available use case id, the first privacy policy and all supported language codes are used for the tests. App user role,
document and image name are optional fields. If these fields are empty, a role will be defined and the files needed for
the upload will be generated during the test.

## Test documents

For registration and create app scenarios documents needed to be upload. They should be placed in directory, where test
data files are located. The name of these documents can be defined in the respective test data files. If no
appropriate test document can be found, an exception will be thrown and the corresponding test will fail.

## Hardcoded values in the test scenarios

The following values are hardcoded in the test scenarios:

* names of json files with test data
* name and description for technical user for service accounts
* attribute "bpn" to check the correctness of token for technical user for service accounts
* [bodies for interface partner health checks](03.%20InterfacePartnerHealthCheck.md)