# FAQ

<br>

## For what are the registration data used for?

The company registration data are used to register the company in the network and to authenticate the legal company.
<br>
<br>

## What will happen after the registration?

As soon as the company registration got submitted, the Catena-X operator will validate the data for correctnes and start the automatic regisration process. This includes the legal validation, the Gaia-X compliance check as well as the creation of the company account.
The process can take up to 48 hours. As soon as the process is successfully processed, the user will get informed and the access to the network will be given. All details are getting shared via email.
<br>
<br>

## Do I need to do the registration in one flow or can i pause in between?

You can pause with the company registration whenever you want. To proceed with the registration, just login with your own credentials and you will be able to proceed where you finished.
<br>
<br>

## What can I do, if I dont have all necessary information available, which are needed to register my company?

Whenever you want, you can pause the registration.
If pausing the registration is not enough, you can also use the optional step #2 and invite another person to support the registration. E.g. a person with the necessary permission level to provide the necessary approvals or to upload the necessary documents.
<br>
<br>

## Why do I always receive a message / warning screen when logging in to the registration form of my company.

In case the registration is already submitted for validation; the company wont be able to change / adjust any company registration relevant data anymore. The registration form is officially closed and the user need to wait for the registration form validation to finish.
<br>
<br>
