## Contribution details


If you are not a a Team Member, the contribution to the portal code is still possible by using the Eclipse Fork function.

Below you can find the detailed "how to" for contribution



### #1 Login

Login or register to eclipse. If you dont have an Github/eclipse user yet, please create a new account by using he "Sign up" function.


<br>


### #2 Open the repo

Use the top right search to get to the repository to which you want to contribute

   

<br>

### #3 Create a fork

Open the repo and create a fork of the repo (top right menu)

   

<br>

### #4 Fork setup

Setup the fork name and make sure that you unselect the "main branch only" selection

<br>

Click "Create fork"

<br>

### #5 Fork work & commit

      With your own fork, you can now start to contribute by creating a new branch (see info below) and start to implement the planned changes or develop new features.

      Info:
      
      * Branch naming should follow the naming convention => “{Ticketnumber}-{short summary}”
      * Ideally pre-discuss with the respective team from which original branch your own branch should get created from. 


      As soon as you are done, commit your change in your own branch and create a pull request against the original repository "DEV" branch.

      Now, wait for the original repo owners to validate your pr and work on fix review comments as well as possible sonar or auto security/quality check findings.



     As soon as all issues are solved, the repo owners will approve and merge the pr.
