## Company Certificate Upload

To upload a certificate, simply navigate to the "Certificates" section in your account settings. From there, click on the "Upload Certificate" button and select the type as well as the file you want to upload. Our system supports currently PDF only with up to 2MB size.

Once uploaded, you can easily view and download your certificates whenever you need them. You can also organize them into different categories or search for specific certificates via the search function.

The details view enables you to view the certificate as well as getting a couple of details such as "Upload date" and "Expiry".

This new feature not only helps you stay organized but also ensures that your company's certificates are easily accessible whenever you need them. Whether it's a business license, ISO certification, or any other important document, you can now keep them all in one secure location.

<br>
<br>

### Upload of an Company Certificate (Implementation)

**Endpoint:** `/api/administration/companydata/companyCertificate`

**Method:** `POST`

**Request Body:**
```json
    "CertificateType":"string"
    "Document":"file($binary)"
    "ExpiryDate":"string($date-time)"
```

**Response:**
```json
204 successfully created
400 in case credentialType doesn't exist
401 authentication issue
500 system error
```

Via the upload action, user data are fetched from the jwt and used to link the document to the correct company.
The linkage to the company susidary is currently not yet supported but planned shortly.

<br>
<br>

#### Linked Functions

- [Certificate Deletion](/docs/user/08.%20Certificate%20Management/02.%20Certificate%20Deletion.md)
- [Certificate Publishing](/docs/user/08.%20Certificate%20Management/03.%20Certificate%20Publishing.md)

<br>

## NOTICE

This work is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2024 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
- Source URL: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/portal-assets
