## Company Certificate Deletion

In addition to the ability to upload and manage your company certificates, a certificate deletion function is enabled - allowing you to easily remove any outdated or no longer relevant certificates from your company account.

To delete a certificate, simply locate the certificate you wish to remove in the "Certificates" section of your account settings. Click on the card element with the three dots to open the sub-menu, and then click on the "Delete" option. A confirmation prompt will appear to ensure you want to proceed with the deletion.

Please note that once a certificate is deleted, it cannot be recovered. Therefore, it is important to double-check and ensure that you are deleting the correct certificate.

The deletion function provides you with the flexibility to keep your certificate repository up-to-date and clutter-free; as well as giving you complete sovereign responsibility to decide which certificate you wanna share. By removing unnecessary certificates, you can maintain a streamlined and organized collection of only the most relevant and current documents.

<br>
<br>

### Deletion of a Company Certificate (Implementation)

**Endpoint:** `/api/administration/companydata/companyCertificate/document/{documentId}`

**Method:** `DELETE`

**Request Body:**

```json
n/a
```

**Response:**

```json
200 - Successfully deleted
400 - Incorrect document state
401 - The User is unauthorized
403 - The user is not assigned with the Company.
404 - Not found
409 - Conflict
```

<br>

When running the endpoint - first the backend validates if the certificate is assigned to the same company_id as the acting user company_id

- if yes, the deletion will get processed (details see below)
- if not; the process is stopped and an error is responded

In the successful validation case: the respective document inside the table portal.documents is set to "INACTIVE" and the "last_date_changed" date is updated as well as the "last_editor_id"
Afterwards the status inside the table portal.company_certificates is getting set to "INACTIVE"

<br>
<br>

#### Linked Functions

- [Upload Certificates](/docs/user/08.%20Certificate%20Management/01.%20Certificate%20Upload.md)
- [Certificate Publishing](/docs/user/08.%20Certificate%20Management/03.%20Certificate%20Publishing.md)

<br>

## NOTICE

This work is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2024 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
- Source URL: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/portal-assets
