## Company Certificate Publishing

Your previously uploaded company certificates are published inside the network.
Either via the _company account page_ which is enabled for all CX members via the partner network OR via an API endpoint which can get accessed/called by CX members as well to retrieve certificates for the collaboration processes - e.g. purchasing processes.

Company certificates shared to others are only those which are in status "active".

<br>

**Content:**

- [Publish/View my certificates](#publishview-my-certificates)
- [Fetch Company Certificate Document Endpoint](#fetch-company-certificate-document-endpoint)
- [Publish/View other business partner certificates](#publishview-other-business-partner-certificates)
- [Fetch Other Company Certificate Document Endpoint](#fetch-other-company-certificate-document-endpoint)

<br>

---

<br>

### Publish/View my certificates

**Endpoint:** `/api/administration/companydata/companyCertificates`

**Method:** `GET`

**Response Body:**

```json
{
  "meta": {
    "totalElements": 1,
    "totalPages": 1,
    "page": 0,
    "contentSize": 1
  },
  "content": [
    {
      "companyCertificateType": "AEO_CTPAT_Security_Declaration",
      "companyCertificateStatus": "ACTIVE",
      "documentId": "9262b17e-fd51-4d05-887d-68fe9513a519",
      "validFrom": "2024-02-27T06:55:33.076916+00:00",
      "validTill": "2025-05-30T18:30:00+00:00"
    }
  ]
}
```

Endpoint is supporting pagination, sorting, filtering.
Displays all my owned certificates no matter which status they might have.

<br>
<br>

### Fetch Company Certificate Document Endpoint

The `GET /api/administration/companydata/companyCertificates/{documentId}` endpoint is used to to fetch the certificate document of your own company from the backend. This endpoint is specifically designed to handle requests related to company certificates and should be used when companyCertificates are fetched.

#### Validations/Backend Logic

- via the endpoint my companies documents can get fetched
- document type of the fetched document must be "Company_Certificate" (table documents.document_type)
- the document status is irrelevant

#### Parameters

The endpoint requires the following parameter:

- `documentId` (required): The ID of the document to fetch. This should be a valid document ID for a company certificate.

#### Response

The endpoint returns the document itself.

#### Example Request

```
GET /api/administration/companydata/companyCertificates/123456
```

#### Example Response

```
file
```

#### Error Handling

- trying to fetch a document of another company => error
- trying to fetch a document which does not exist => error
- trying to fetch a document of a different document type => error; only certificates are supported

###### Example

If the `documentId` provided is not a valid document ID for a company certificate, the endpoint will return a 404 error with the following message:

```
{
    "error": "Document not found"
}
```

<br>
<br>

### Publish/View other business partner certificates

**Endpoint:** `/api/administration/companydata/company/{businessPartnerNumber}/companyCertificates`

**Method:** `GET`

**Response Body:**

```json
[
  {
    "companyCertificateType": "AEO_CTPAT_Security_Declaration",
    "companyCertificateStatus": "ACTIVE",
    "documentId": "3fa85f64-5717-4562-b3fc-2c963f66afa6",
    "validFrom": "2024-02-29T06:13:38.634Z",
    "validTill": "2024-02-29T06:13:38.634Z"
  }
]
```

Only response wih those certificates which are active. Any other states wont be shown/shared.

<br>
<br>

### Fetch Other Company Certificate Document Endpoint

The `GET /api/administration/companydata/companyCertificates/documents/{documentId}` endpoint is used to to fetch the certificate document of a company from the backend. This endpoint is specifically designed to handle requests related to company certificates and should be used when companyCertificates are fetched.

#### Validations/Backend Logic

The following validations and backend logic apply when fetching the certificate document:

- Only certificates with a status of "ACTIVE" can be fetched. Certificates with any other status will not be returned by the endpoint.

- The document type of the fetched document must be "Company_Certificate". This is determined by checking the `document_type` field in the `documents` table. If the document type does not match "Company_Certificate", it will not be returned by the endpoint.

These validations ensure that only active company certificates are fetched and that the fetched document belongs to the correct document type.

#### Parameters

The endpoint requires the following parameter:

- `documentId` (required): The ID of the document to fetch. This should be a valid document ID for a company certificate.

#### Response

The endpoint returns the document itself.

#### Example Request

```
GET /api/administration/companydata/companyCertificates/documents/123456
```

#### Example Response

```
file
```

#### Error Handling

- trying to fetch a document which does not exist
- trying to fetch a document which is not in status "LOCKED"
- trying to fetch a document of another document type

###### Example

If the `documentId` provided is not a valid document ID for a company certificate, the endpoint will return a 404 error with the following message:

```
{
    "error": "Document not found"
}
```

<br>
<br>

#### Linked Functions

- [Upload Certificates](/docs/user/08.%20Certificate%20Management/01.%20Certificate%20Upload.md)
- [Delete Certificates](/docs/user/08.%20Certificate%20Management/02.%20Certificate%20Deletion.md)

<br>

## NOTICE

This work is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
- Source URL: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/portal-assets
