## Self-Sovereign-Identity

Inside the catena-x world, managing your identity and data securely and efficiently is one of the key targets. Considering this, we implemented the usage of *Digital Wallet* and *Credentials* on Company level.

### What is a Digital Wallet?

A **Digital Wallet** in the context of a dataspace is an identity wallet of an company (note: it can be many other things as well, but in the context of the CX iomplementation we are talking about company identities). In detail: it holds your credentials, identity information, and potentially other company data. It's like a virtual safe where your digital identity components are stored securely. Your digital wallet can authenticate you across various platforms and services within the dataspace without the need to repeatedly enter your personal information.
In the concept of the digital wallet the concept of own and managed wallet.

In the current implementation state of the datapsace only one wallet is supported, but extending to multiple wallets (managed as well as own) is planned shortly.

### What are Credentials?

**Credentials** are digital documents that prove various aspects of your identity or qualifications. These can include things like your identity itself (similar to digital ID card - just on a company level), memberships, or permissions to access certain data or services. These credentials are issued by trusted entities within the dataspace and are stored securely in your digital wallet.

### Which roles play a game in the wallet/credential management?

1. **Issuer**: Trusted entities in the dataspace issue digital credentials after verifying your identity or certifications. These credentials are then securely stored in your digital wallet.
Trusted issuer of the catena-x dataspace are certified and available via the 'SSI Authority & Schema Registry'.

2. **Wallet provider**: Wallet service provider which offer managed wallets for dataspace participants. Status: Coming Soon


### Important Links - Get to the implementation

- Wallet Creation
- Get a Credentila (UseCase)
- Get a Credential (CompanyRoles)
- Issuer Component - *coming soon*

<br>
<br>

## NOTICE

This work is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2023 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
- Source URL: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/portal-assets
