## Users invited via OSP

This part of the documentation will help users, who were registered via an Onboarding Service Provider (OSP) to get along. Please note, that this documentation only starts at the time you were successfully registered with your OSP and received your welcome mail from the portal. Any help or guidance regarding the registration on any site of your OSP, needs to be obtained from your OSP. Please refer to [Onboarding Service Provider](/docs/developer/00.%20Personas/05.%20Onboarding%20Service%20Provider.md) if you need more information about OSPs in general.

### Welcome Mail & First Login

As soon as the registration process is done on your OSP side, you will receive a welcome mail, that contains information on how you can proceed. It will provide you with a link and information about how to log in to the dataspace. For the login you can use the account you're using with your OSP party already and entering your dataspace user credentials. In case the authentication runs on errors, please contact your Onboarding Service Provider.

### T&Cs

When you first log in, you will be prompted with an overlay that asks you to consent to the terms and conditions. As soon as this is done the overlay will close and you can start browsing the site. The terms and conditions may vary, depending on the assigned roles, that were selected during the initial registration process.
<br>
**Please Note:** At this point you will not yet have access to the full functionality, this will only be possible once your registration is finally approved (see next paragraph).

### Status Overlay

You will then see an overlay that tells you about the status of your registration. The individual steps, that need to be checked and done prior to your final registration will be listed here. You can close it at any time and can reopen it with the bar at the top. The required steps are the same as they are for a regular operator triggered registration. That also includes the generation of the BPNL. As soon as all steps have been finished successfully, you will receive an status information mail.
<br>
**Please Note:** you do not need to perform anything here, these are automatic steps, that generally do not require your active participation at that point.

### Decline Registration

In case you received the earlier mentioned welcome mail and you do not want to part of the dataspace, you can scroll down to the bottom of the page and click the link for declining the registration.

## NOTICE

This work is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
- Source URL: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/portal-assets
