# Test Automation Summary

## How to run

E2E Tests can be started manually with the help of the "Test Automation E2E Tests" workflow via GitHub Actions. This
workflow has two parameters: environment and test category. Environment value can be for example "dev" or "int".
Test category defines, which group of tests will be executed. For now the following test categories are implemented:
all, interface health check, portal health check, portal, registration.

## Users for TestAutomation

For successful run of tests following users should exist in the corresponding environment:

- Portal test users for portal tests
- Technical users for Interface Partner Health Checks

## Management of secrets and environment variables

Sensitive data is stored in a separate from the project tree location and isn't checked into source control. Two types
of data are further distinguished: variables and secrets. Variables include such data as urls and non-sensitive, but
domain specific ids as for example NotificationOfferId. Secrets include user names and passwords as well as specific
tokens such as TempMail API token.

For now the following variables are in use (can be found in the project in `tests/TestRessources.cs`):

| Variable                 | Value                                                |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| ENVIRONMENT              | dev                                                  |
| NOTIFICATION_OFFER_ID    | UUID_VALUE                                           |
| PORTAL_USER_COMPANY_NAME | PORTAL-COMPANY-FOR-TESTS                             |
| CLEARING_HOUSE_URL       | <https://validation.test.example.org>                |
| CLEARING_HOUSE_TOKEN_URL | <https://iam.test.example.org/{endpoint}/token>      |
| SD_FACTORY_BASE_URL      | <https://sdfactory.{Env}.example.org>                |
| WALLET_BASE_URL          | <https://managed-identity-wallets.{Env}.example.org> |
| BASE_PORTAL_URL          | <https://portal.{Env}.example.org>                   |
| BASE_CENTRAL_IDP_URL     | <https://centralidp.{Env}.example.org>               |
| BASE_PORTAL_BACKEND_URL  | <https://portal-backend.{Env}.example.org>           |
| BPDM_URL                 | <https://partners-pool.{Env}.example.org>            |

where example.org corresponds to the domain in use.

Following secrets are in use (can be found in the project in `tests/Secrets.cs`):

| Secret                                    |
| ----------------------------------------- |
| TEMPMAIL_APIKEY                           |
| INTERFACE_HEALTH_CHECK_TECH_CLIENT_ID     |
| INTERFACE_HEALTH_CHECK_TECH_CLIENT_SECRET |
| CLEARING_HOUSE_CLIENT_ID                  |
| CLEARING_HOUSE_CLIENT_SECRET              |
| PORTAL_USER_NAME                          |
| PORTAL_USER_PASSWORD                      |

where TEMPMAIL_APIKEY is a token to call TempMail API, technical client id and secret for interface health check are
used for BPDM, SdFactory and Wallet health checks, client id and secret for clearing house are used for ClearingHouse
health check and portal user name and password are used for the rest of the tests.

Secrets and variables can be managed via GitHub Actions to run the workflow or locally for local run.

- via GitHub Actions

In order to run workflow "TestAutomation E2E Tests" secrets (user names and passwords) should be added to GitHub Secrets
on environment level. For example, to run on "dev" environment "dev" should be created first and then all necessary
secrets should be added to this environment. Url variables can be added as variables on repository level as they are
parametrized with {Env}. Environment specific variables such as company names and offer ids can be added on environment
level.

- for local test run

In order to set environment variables locally, values should be added into `tests/appsettings.EndToEndTests.json`.
Secrets should be managed with the help of
the [Secret Manager](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets?view=aspnetcore-7.0&tabs=windows).
First Secret Manager should be initialized in the project with `dotnet user-secrets init` and then all necessary
secrets should be set with the help of the command ```dotnet user-secrets set "USER_SECRET" "12345".

## Structure

E2E Tests are divided into two groups: tests for health check and functional tests. Below you can find a short
description of these tests. Detailed information is available in separate files with according names.

Base url for tests:

```
https://portal-backend.{env}.demo.example.org
```

where "env" defines environment specifics.

### Health Check Tests

Health check is needed to be executed to make sure that the appropriate endpoints are available and return a non-empty
response. It can be run separately or before functional tests.

#### [PortalHealthCheck](04.%20PortalHealthCheck.md)

Portal health check is implemented for administration and registration services in order to check the load of static
data and availability of additional endpoints.

#### [InterfacePartnerHealthCheck](03.%20InterfacePArtnerHealthCheck.md)

Interface Partner Health Check is now implemented for BPDM, ClearingHouse, SdFactory and Wallet.

### Functional E2E Tests

Functional E2E tests are designed to check the behavior of an application under different scenarios. Following scenarios
were implemented:

#### [Registration scenarios](05.%20RegistrationScenarios.md)

Registration scenarios suppose to check if registration process runs as expected. The following scenarios were
implemented completely: registration without bpn, update of company detail data after confirmation, in-registration
invitation. Two scenarios (registration without bpn and registration without document upload) were partly implemented as
adjustments in productive code are needed.
Some additional scenarios can be added later. For example, validation of the right company detail data depending on the
selected country.

#### [Notification initial scenario](NotificationInitSceanrio.md)

Notification initial scenario checks if a new random portal role can be assigned and unassigned and if appropriate
notification, to the respective right person and with the correct content is created.

#### [Service Account CUD Scenarios](ServiceAccountCUDScenarios.md)

Create-Update-Delete Scenarios suppose to check if new service accounts can be correctly created, updated and deleted.

## Test Parametrization

Some tests are parameterized, which allow to run test scenarios with different data sets in one launch. The test data
files are json files with the lists of data objects. The structure of these files can be
found [here](08.%20TestDataFileSetup.md).

Parameterized tests are marked as Theory. Member data annotation shows which function delivers test data sets for the
test and calls appropriate functions from TestDataHelper class to fetch necessary data from test data file.

Test data file is firstly parsed as a list of dictionary<string, Object> where dictionary key is a string variable that
represents the name of the object. Dictionary value corresponds to the appropriate data type and deserialized to the
object of this type.

Test data file is first deserialized as a list of Dictionary<string, object>, where string variable defines the type of
object.

## ReportPortal

After running the tests, the results can be sent to ReportPortal for better visualization. In order to make it possible
the following secrets should be added to the file `tests/ReportPortal.config.json`:

| Secret                           |
| -------------------------------- |
| REPORTPORTAL_URL                 |
| REPORTPORTAL_PROJECT             |
| REPORTPORTAL_AUTHENTICATION_UUID |

Similar to the process described above these secrets can be defined as secrets on environment level in GitHub Actions.
They will be automatically added to the config file before build of the solution.

For local run values should be added to the file `tests/ReportPortal.config.json`, but should not be committed into
source control.

The values of secrets can be found under the profile tab in deployed ReportPortal. The further specifics for running and
configuring the ReportPortal are highlighted [here](10.%20ReportPortal.md).

## NOTICE

This work is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
- Source URL: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/portal-assets
