# Summary

The CX Portal User Management is enhanced by the technical user management which is used to manage technical users for a company. Technical users are relevant for backend to backend service connections.  
Example use case: register Digital Twins via the DFT to the digital twin registry.
<br>
<br>
Technical user permissions are created by the operator and need to get loaded as part of the static data.
<br>
Currently the portal doesn't support the technical user permission creation by an administrator operator board. In future releases, the functionality is planned to get implemented. Till that, technical users need to get deployed to Keycloak as well as the portal db.
<br>
<br>
CX Member companies can create their technical users on their needs and map them to the pre-defined roles.
<br>
<br>

### Customer Functionalities covered in the function

- Create new technical user under my org
- View all my technical users (including technical user details) of owned and managed tech users
- Delete technical user

### Available technical user roles

Following technical user roles are configured/available as standard technical user roles (in portal db as well as the keycloak config delivered with the release package)

- Connector User
- Identity Wallet Management
- BPDM Management
- BPDM Gateway
- Dataspace Discovery
- App Tech User
- Service Management

<br>

To ensure that technical user profiles are not randomly available but rather customer need specific, the technical user roles are mapped (similar like user roles) to the respective company roles. With that we can enable that specific technical user roles are only available/assignable for those user groups, which actually need the respective permissions.

<br>

> **_NOTE:_** The assignment of technical users to company roles is managed via the following tables portal.company_service_accounts and portal.user_role_assigned_collections

<br>

The table below gives an overview of the technical user role mapping to the respetcive company roles

| Technical User Profile     | Assigned Company Role(s) |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| App Tech User              | App Provider             |
| BPDM Management            | Operator                 |
| BPDM Partner Gate          | Operator                 |
| BPDM Pool                  | All                      |
| Connector User             | All                      |
| Dataspace Discovery        | All                      |
| Identity Wallet Management | All                      |
| Registration External      | Operator                 |
| Service Management         | Service Provider         |

<br>

> **_NOTE:_** Example: if the users company has the role "App Provider" technical users with permissions for
>
> - App Tech User
> - BPDM Pool
> - Connector User
> - Dataspace Discovery
> - Identity Wallet Management
>   are available / can get created, the other technical user permissions are blocked.

<br>
<br>

## NOTICE

This work is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2023 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
- Source URL: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/portal-assets
